Broken Access Control 

Terminologies 
1. Authentication  
2. Session Management 
3. Broken Access Control

Authentication: Identifies the user and confirms that they say who they say they are. 
 
Session Management: Identifies which subsequent HTTP requests are being made by each user. 

Access Control: Determines whether the user is allowed to carry out the action that they are attempting to perform.  

Different types of Access Control:

1) Vertical Access control:  Is used to restrict acccess to functions not available for other users in the organization. 

2) Horizontal Access control: enables different users to access similar resources types. 

3) Context-Dependent Access Control: restricts access to functionality and resources based on the state of the application or the user's interaction with it. 


Broken Access Control vulnerabilties: 

Description: Arise when users can act outside of their intended permissions.   

Impact: This typically leads to sensitive information disclosure, unauthorized access and modification or destruction of data. 

Severity: Critical/High   

Bypassing Access control checks by 
1. modifying params in the URL 
2. modifying params in the HTML page
3. Accessing the API with missing access control on the POST, PUT and DELETE methods 
4. Manupulating metadata, such as replaying or tampering with JSON web Tokens (JWT) or a cookie 
5. Expoliting CORS misconfiguration that allow API access from unauthorized/ untrusted origins. 
6. Force browsing authenticated pages as an authenticated user. 

Use the Extension in Burp called "Authorize" to check if the Broken Access Control is present or not. 

Solution/Prevention: 

• Use a security-centric design where access is verified first and ensure all 
requests go through an access control check. 
• Except for public resources, deny access by default. 
• Apply the principal of least privilege throughout the entire application. 
• Consider using attribute or feature-based access control checks instead of 
role-based access control. 
• NIST Attribute Based Access Control 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cgTa7YnGfHA&ab_channeI=NationaIInstituteof 
StandardsandTechnoIogy 
• NIST Special Publication 800-162: 
https://nvIpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/speciaIpubIications/NIST.sp.800-162.pdf 
• Access control checks should always be performed on the server side. 
 


 